My name is Steve, I am the head of
FrontEnd Engineering at Tempero, and
we are gonna talk about building
design systems in StoryBook.
And Design Systems is like
a little bit of a spectrum, right?
I used to work at a company called Twilio,
where, that's a big company,
we had a full design systems team with
designers and engineers dedicated
to that and contributions from
all over the organization, right?
And now we're at a much
smaller startup and
k one of the jokes we kid around or
in stand up and
our team was that whether or
not you set out to build a design system.
At one point or another,
you almost end up with one, right?
It starts out with like, what if we have
a few shared components that we reuse,
which is a reasonably good idea, right?
Then all of a sudden, like you get like,
this other like repo over here or
something along those lines, and you end
up with more and more of a design system.
So then you end up with the situation
of like, a design system that
you intentionally decided to build, or one
that organically kind of just happened.
And there's a lot of reasons why you
would build a design system, right?
And a lot of ink has been spilled.
Every, like, book that I've ever bought
on a design system is predominantly about
how do you pitch it to your boss to get
them to let you build a design system.
And not a lot about actually how you go
about thinking about it and building one,
because there's also just
having the shared components.
I think the value prop is there.
But then also, when we sit down and
actually think about it, there's all
a bunch of other pieces that benefit
us in a wide variety of ways, right?
Like, StoryBook is a great way
to showcase your components.
So like for instance, we have one for our
website and then one for our application,
where we can have every given
piece that we can kind of see and
review with different kind of content.
And manipulate outside
the context of our application.
But the other really cool thing is with
StoryBook you can hook up effectively
component testing, accessibility testing,
visual regression testing.
A lot of stuff that in the larger context
of your app and all of its API calls and
the bootstrapping of everything
could be relatively hard to do.
The ability to break stuff into all of the
component pieces and be able to view them
be able to kind of tweak all
the different settings to see and
every permutation makes it way easier for
development.
But what I'm gonna try to argue with you
today is also it makes it way easier to
maintain reliability of your application,
right?
The ability to see each piece, to be
able to put it in different contexts.
You're able to run those visual
regression tests and component tests and
even we can like use playwriting to drive
the browser to actually interact with
the components to make sure they
behave the way that they want.
Because all little demo apps
are very simple, right?
But at a certain point of time,
your code base grows to such a point
that you always get worried that
touching one piece of code breaks
something over on the other end, right?
And so the same strategies that we use for
thinking about building up
those shared components, actually also
add in a layer of maintainability and
reliability to our application.
And make sure that we have
consistency across everything.
So when we need to do a refactor,
when we need to change some of the amount
of styling, it becomes a lot easier to do.
So we're gonna build out a few components
today in the context of a StoryBook.
We are gonna use React,
but honestly, like,
you don't even need to know React
to be able to follow along.
It's predominantly the styling and
structure and
the integration of all the tooling and
stuff along those lines.
We're gonna start out with just some
regular CSS and CSS modules, later on,
we will just use Tailwind.
Mostly so we can focus on
the key parts of StoryBook and
the design system without
handwriting a whole bunch of CSS.
So I'll make some references to
like tailwind specific stuff, but
in a lot of cases, if you have some
other styling system that is easily as
applicable as anything
we're doing in tailwind.
It's just a little bit easier for us to
focus on the main event here as well.
So we do have a repository,
we also have this course website where
everything that I talked about at various
points is also kind of written
out with all the code samples.
So you're like, hey,
he switched to a different file,
I really want to know what he typed there.
Like, you can also pretty much find out
play by play of everything I'm gonna
talk about.
And even some of the jokes that I'm
going to tell are all in there.
I wrote up the notes might
as well share them with you.
So that's the here at the course website.
And then on that front page, we have a
repository that has just some boilerplate.
We will kind of just look at a like tabula
rasa StoryBook implementation one point,
and I'm kind of jumping to using this
repo and just kind of adding some stuff.
It's just basic got some of the setup so
we don't have to work through all of that.
For a lot of this,
I kind of ported over some concepts from
our design system in kind of
a smaller fashion here as well.
So some of the stuff
that we will implement
are found here as well in this Figma file.
But everything we do,
we can follow along with the code as well.
So you guys kinda see that integration.
So that's the high-level
setup that we have here.
And like I said, most of these things are
things you can add, whether it's a brand
new application, or in our case,
like we started out with, like you build,
like a lot of times like we would all
love to Greenfield a design system.
I don't think I've ever been in
a situation where that has happened.
A lot of times you start building the app,
you find the need for reusability, right?
And then you kind of have to back
yourself into having to design system and
begin to refactor and
stuff along those lines.
So kind of definitely pay respect to that
more common situation at the same
time as we jump through everything.